<div class="row">
    <div class="col-lg-offset-3 col-lg-6 col-md-offset-2 col-md-8 col-xs-offset-1 col-xs-10 text-center">
        <h2 class="sub_heading_blue">A gift to you from fractalide</h2>
        <p>
            A mad, bald, bearded man recently gave you something - a card. Because he saw hidden potential in you.
        </p>
        <p>
            He <i>might</i> have seen the feint glimmer of a pioneer in you. He <i>possibly</i> thought he saw the ability to shoulder responsibility till your knees quake?  He thought <i>maybe</i> you have the gift of being able to speak truth to power?
        </p>
        <p>
            If <i>you</i> are such a person, you have arrived at a place and time where <i>your</i> courage and skills may bring about a historic change in society. Few will <i>rise</i> to this occasion as most prefer the comforts of the host-centric matrix. While <i>sucking</i> at the teat of Google, Facebook and the other tech giants.
        </p>
        <p>
            Your <i>mission</i> is to mobilize your mind, body and spirit to help building something new. A <i>new</i> information-centric internet and <a href="/trulity">Trulity</a>, its first information-centric browser.
        </p>
        <p>
            For too <i>long</i> have we suffered at the hands of oligarchs. Who build browsers <i>broken</i> by design and intended to fortify their positions.
        </p>
        <p>
            <mark> Email the following information to the email address on your card. 1.) The <b>code</b> as the <b>email subject</b>. 2.) Your <b>ADA address</b> generated by this <a href="https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-cli">software</a> in the <b>email body</b>.</mark>
        </p>
        <p>
            Only use an ADA address you control the keys to, definitely <i>don't use</i> an address on a hardware wallet, or on an exchange etc. It goes without saying, don't lose your key pair. You are solely responsible for your keys.
        </p>
        <p>
            If you don't have time or need help creating your ADA address, please send an email with the code as the subject and you will assisted.
        </p>
        <p>
            The amount of <a href="/luceo">Luceo</a> on the card will be sent to the address you emailed at the release of mainnet in Q3 2019.
        </p>
        <p>
            All our code is MPLv2 license, you own your own code as we use the <a href="https://rfc.unprotocols.org/spec:1/C4/">C4</a> as our development contract.
        </p>
    </div>
</div>
